.TH CAFEOBJ 1 "September 2014" "User Manuals"

.SH NAME

cafeobj \- algebraic specification and programming language

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cafeobj
[\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIFILES\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION

Starts the \fBCafeOBJ\fR interpreter.
.PP
\fBCafeOBJ\fR is a most advanced formal specification language which 
inherits many advanced features (e.g. flexible mix-fix syntax,
powerful and clear typing system with ordered sorts, parameteric
modules and views for instantiating the parameters, and module
expressions, etc.) from OBJ (or more exactly OBJ3) algebraic
specification language.

CafeOBJ is a language for writing formal (i.e. mathematical) 
specifications of models for wide varieties of software and systems, 
and verifying properties of them. CafeOBJ implements equational logic
by rewriting and can be used as a powerful interactive theorem proving
system. Specifiers can write proof scores also in CafeOBJ and doing
proofs by executing the proof scores.

CafeOBJ has state-of-art rigorous logical semantics based on
institutions. The CafeOBJ cube shows the structure of the various
logics underlying the combination of the various paradigms implemented
by the language. Proof scores in CafeOBJ are also based on institution
based rigorous semantics, and can be constructed using a complete set 
of proof rules. 

.SH OPTIONS

There are two classes of options. The first are options for the
\fBcafeobj\fR wrapper script that allows to select the underlying
Common Lisp interpreter, and to adjust search path parameters.
.TP
\fB\-engine\fR \fINAME\fR
selects the underlying common lisp engine. If not given, the first
one selected during build time is used.
.TP
\fB\-list-engines\fR
lists all available common lisp engines
.TP
\fB\-wrapper-libpath\fR \fIPATH\fR
sets the path where memory dumps of the lisp interpreters are found
.TP
\fB\-wrapper-sharepath\fR \fIPATH\fR
sets the path where CafeOBJ initialization files are searched
.PP
The following set of options are directed at the CafeOBJ interpreter
directly:
.TP
\fB\-help\fR
print a help message
.TP
\fB\-q\fR
do not load user's initialization file
.TP
\fB\-batch\fR
run in batch mode
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIPATH\fR
gives the standard prelude file defining modules
.TP
\fB+p\fR \fIPATH\fR
load additional prelude file
.TP
\fB\-l\fR \fIDIR-LIST\fR
set list of pathnames for module search path, separated by colons
.TP
\fB+l\fR \fIDIR-LIST\fR
adds a list of pathname for module search path
.TP
\fIFILES\fR
files that are loaded at startup time in order.
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Toshimi Sawada and Norbert Preining.
.br
Contact: info@cafeobj.org
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2000-2014 Toshima Sawada, Norbert Preining.
License BSD.
.br
THIS SOFTWARE IS SUPPLIED COMPLETELY "AS IS". CafeOBJ is distributed
in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without
even the implied warranty of MERCHANT-ABILITY of FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
